Porting Clawback documentation to xrpl.org (#2111)
XRPLF/xrpl-dev-portal: content/references/protocol-reference/transactions/transaction-types/clawback.md

---
html: clawback.html
parent: transaction-types.html

> blurb: Claw back an issued currency transfer between accounts in a trust set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
blurb: Claw back tokens you've issued.
```

Reviewer 2: Thank you, Rome, for your thorough review.

labels:
  - Tokens
status: not_enabled
---
# Clawback

[[Source]](https://github.com/XRPLF/rippled/blob/master/src/ripple/app/tx/impl/Clawback.cpp "Source")

> <embed src="/snippets/_clawback-disclaimer.md" />

Reviewer: Same as above re:snippet

Reviewer 2: Thank you, Rome, for your thorough review.

> Claw back an issued currency transfer between accounts in a trust set.

Reviewer: Lot of problems with this sentence:

- There is no concept of "a trust set". The "set" in "TrustSet" is a verb, not a noun (the source file is even `SetTrust.cpp`!)
- You're clawing back a balance, not a transfer. The tokens may have been transferred among users several times between issuing and clawback.
- We prefer to call them "tokens" not "issued currency"
- Ideally, the first sentence of an article should have an "escape hatch" link that goes back to the concept page explaining the greater context for the feature.

```suggestion
[Claw back tokens](clawing-back-tokens.html) issued by your account. This only works if you have enabled the Allow Clawback flag before issuing the tokens.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't agree that there should be an escape hatch link. Thank you, Rome, for your thorough review.

## Example Clawback JSON

```json
{
  "TransactionType": "Clawback",
  "Account": "rp6abvbTbjoce8ZDJkT6snvxTZSYMBCC9S",
  "Amount": {
      "currency": "FOO",
      "issuer": "rsA2LpzuawewSBQXkiju3YQTMzW13pAAdW",
      "value": "314.159"
    }
}
```

> [Clawback example transaction. >](websocket-api-tool.html?server=wss%3A%2F%2Fs.devnet.rippletest.net%2F&tx=%7B%22id%22%3A%22example_Clawback%22%2C%22command%22%3A%22Clawback%22%2C%22Account%22%3A%22rp6abvbTbjoce8ZDJkT6snvxTZSYMBCC9S%22%2C%22Amount%22%3A%7B%22currency%22%3A%22FOO%22%2C%22issuer%22%3A%22rsA2LpzuawewSBQXkiju3YQTMzW13pAAdW%22%2C%22value%22%3A%22314.159%22%7D%7D)

Reviewer: This link doesn't work, for several reasons:

- It uses `&tx=` which is not a query parameter the WebSocket tool recognizes (There is a `&req=` parameter that is formatted the same way...)
- It's trying to use an example request as an example transaction.
- It should be an example of the `tx` API method looking up an example of a historical Clawback transaction on a live network, but it's not at all the right format for that. (See [this example](https://xrpl.org/websocket-api-tool.html?server=wss%3A%2F%2Fxrplcluster.com%2F&req=%7B%22id%22%3A%22example_AccountSet%22%2C%22command%22%3A%22tx%22%2C%22transaction%22%3A%22327FD263132A4D08170E1B01FE1BB2E21D0126CE58165C97A9173CA9551BCD70%22%2C%22binary%22%3Afalse%7D) for what it should actually look like
- With Devnet being reset this week, any "real" transaction from beforehand won't be part of the post-reset chain's history

Reviewer 2: Thank you, Rome, for your thorough review. I'm going to remove the example for the time being.

> ## Clawback Fields
> 
> In addition to the common fields, `Clawback` transactions use the following fields:

Reviewer: We have a snippet for this which correctly links the common fields.

```suggestion
{% include '_snippets/tx-fields-intro.md' %}
```

| Field              | JSON Type | [Internal Type][] | Description       |
|:-------------------|:----------|:------------------|:------------------|

> | `TransactionType`  | string    | `UINT16`          | Indicates the new transaction type `Clawback`. The integer value is `30`. The name is `ttCLAWBACK`. |

Reviewer: This is a common field, and should not be listed here.

Reviewer 2: Thank you, Rome, for your thorough review.

> | `Account`          | string    | `ACCOUNT ID`      | The account executing this transaction. The account must be the issuer of the asset being clawed back. Note that in the XRP Ledger, trust lines are bidirectional and, under some configurations, both sides can be seen as the "issuer" of an asset. In this specification, the term *issuer* is used to mean the side of the trust line that has an outstanding balance (that is, 'owes' the issued asset) that it wants to claw back.|

Reviewer: This is another common field, and should not be listed here. Some of the details (around who's considered the "issuer") should be moved to elsewhere in the page though.

Reviewer 2: Thank you, Rome, for your thorough review.

> | `Flags`            | number    | `UINT32`          | (Optional) The universal transaction flags that are applicable to all transactions (for example, `tfFullyCanonicalSig`) are valid. This proposal introduces no new transaction-specific flags. |

Reviewer: This is another common field and should not be listed here.

Reviewer 2: Thank you, Rome, for your thorough review.

> | `Amount`           | object     | `AMOUNT`          | Indicates the amount being clawed back, as well as the counterparty from which the amount is being clawed back. |

Reviewer: To match the format from other transaction types:

```suggestion
| `Amount` | [Currency Amount][]  | Amount |Indicates the amount being clawed back, as well as the counterparty from which the amount is being clawed back. The quantity to claw back, in the `value` sub-field, must not be zero. If this is more than the current balance, the transaction claws back the entire balance. |
```

> It is not an error if the amount exceeds the holder's balance; in that case, the maximum available balance is clawed back. It returns `temBAD_AMOUNT` if the amount is zero.

Reviewer: The error code should be moved to an error codes table, but the requirements on the "Amount" field should be moved into the description column for `Amount`, above.

> It is an error if the counterparty listed in `Amount` is the same as the `Account` issuing this transaction; the transaction fails execution with `temBAD_AMOUNT`.

Reviewer: Move to an error codes table.

Reviewer 2: Thank you, Rome, for your thorough review.

> If there doesn't exist a trust line with the counterparty or that trust line's balance is 0, the error `tecNO_LINE` is returned.

Reviewer: Move to an error codes table.

> The sub-field `issuer` within `Amount` represents the token holder's account ID rather than the issuer's.

Reviewer: Maybe put this in a `**Note:**` callout?

```suggestion
**Note:** In the `Amount` field, the `issuer` sub-field defines the token holder, not the issuer.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't think it warrants a callout, as this is the primary place a user will look for information about the settings, and there aren't many settings.

> ## lsfAllowTrustLineClawback

Reviewer: This information doesn't belong in the section for the **Clawback** transaction type. Some of it is redundant with the conceptual information and some of it should be added to the **AccountSet** transaction type docs.

What is missing here is a list of error cases that can occur on a Clawback transaction. I suggest formatting it in the style of the ["Error Cases" table in AccountDelete](https://xrpl.org/accountdelete.html#error-cases).

Reviewer 2: Thank you, Rome, for your thorough review.
